# Monitor Virtual Machine

Do you use a proper virtual machine size to run your web application? The only way to check it is to analyse the VM metrics. As you already know, host-level metrics are available out-of-the-box, but for the OS-level metrics, like RAM or disk space usage, you need to do some extra steps. 

In this task you will practice monitoring OS-level metrics for Azure Virtual Machines. 

## How to complete tasks in this module 

Tasks in this module are relying on 2 PowerShell scripts: 

- `scripts/generate-artifacts.ps1` generates the task "artifacts" and uploads them to cloud storage. An "artifact" is evidence of a task completed by you. Each task will have its own script, which will gather the required artifacts. The script also adds a link to the generated artifact in the `artifacts.json` file in this repository — make sure to commit changes to this file after you run the script. 
- `scripts/validate-artifacts.ps1` validates the artifacts generated by the first script. It loads information about the task artifacts from the `artifacts.json` file.

Here is how to complete tasks in this module:

1. Clone task repository

2. Make sure you completed steps, described in the Prerequisites section

3. Complete the task, described in the Requirements section 

4. Run `scripts/generate-artifacts.ps1` to generate task artifacts. Script will update the file `artifacts.json` in this repo. 

5. Run `scripts/validate-artifacts.ps1` to test yourself. If tests are failing - follow the recomendation from the test script error message to fix or re-deploy your infrastructure. When you will be ready to test yourself again - **re-generate the artifacts** (step 4) and re-run tests again. 

6. When all tests will pass - commit your changes and submit the solution for a review. 

Pro tip: if you stuck with any of the implementation steps - run `scripts/generate-artifacts.ps1` and `scripts/validate-artifacts.ps1`. The validation script might give you a hint on what you should do.  

## Prerequisites

Before completing any task in the module, make sure that you followed all the steps described in the **Environment Setup** topic, in particular: 

1. Ensure you have an [Azure](https://azure.microsoft.com/en-us/free/) account and subscription.

2. Create a resource group called *"mate-resources"* in the Azure subscription.

3. In the *"mate-resources"* resource group, create a storage account (any name) and a *"task-artifacts"* container.

4. Install [PowerShell 7](https://learn.microsoft.com/en-us/powershell/scripting/install/installing-powershell?view=powershell-7.4) on your computer. All tasks in this module use Powershell 7. To run it in the terminal, execute the following command: 
    ```
    pwsh
    ```

5. Install [Azure module for PowerShell 7](https://learn.microsoft.com/en-us/powershell/azure/install-azure-powershell?view=azps-11.3.0): 
    ```
    Install-Module -Name Az -Repository PSGallery -Force
    ```
If you are a Windows user, before running this command, please also run the following: 
    ```
    Set-ExecutionPolicy -ExecutionPolicy RemoteSigned -Scope CurrentUser
    ```

6. Log in to your Azure account using PowerShell:
    ```
    Connect-AzAccount -TenantId <your Microsoft Entra ID tenant id>
    ```

## Requirements

In this task, you will need to configure and check OS-level mertics for Azure Virtual Machine. To complete the task, you need to perform the following steps: 

1. Review the Powershell script `task.ps1`, which deploys virtual machine and installs the todo web app on it. Update the script to prepare the VM which it deploys for collecting OS-level metrics: 

    - Enable a system-assigned identity for the VM. To learn how to do that, check the documentation of [New-AzVM](https://learn.microsoft.com/en-us/powershell/module/az.compute/new-azvm?view=azps-11.5.0) comandlet. 

    - [Deploy](https://learn.microsoft.com/en-us/azure/azure-monitor/agents/azure-monitor-agent-manage?tabs=azure-powershell#system-assigned-managed-identity) Azure Monitor Agent using Powershell to the VM. 

2. Run the updated `task.ps1` script to create a cloud infrastructure for the web app. 

3. In the task resource group (`mate-azure-task-13`) [create a Data Collection Rule](https://learn.microsoft.com/en-us/azure/azure-monitor/vm/tutorial-monitor-vm-guest), which collects VM guest OS metrics and send them to Azure Monitor. After you created the rule, wait 10-20 minutes for the Azure Monitor Agent to start sending metrics to Azure Monitor. 

4. Verify that metrics are available for your VM. 

5. Run artifacts generation script `scripts/generate-artifacts.ps1`.

6. Test yourself using the script `scripts/validate-artifacts.ps1`.

7. Make sure that changes to both `task.ps1` and `result.json` are commited to the repo, and sumbit the solution for a review. 

8. When solution is validated, delete resources you deployed with the Powershell script - you won't need them for the next tasks. 
